.ig
(C) Copyright IBM Corp. 2002, 2004, 2005, 2009

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.
..

.TH wbemcli 1 "June 2009" "wbemcli Version 1.6.2"

.SH NAME
wbemcli \- independent command line CIM Client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wbemcli
.BR gc|gcd|dc|ec|ecn|gi|ci|mi|di|ei|ein|ai|ain|ri|rin|gp|sp|cm|cmx
[\c
.BR \-nl ]
[\c
.BR \-h ]
[\c
.BR \-t ]
[\c
.BR \-cte]
[\c
.BR \-dx ]
[\c
.BR \-dr ]
[\c
.BR \-noverify ]
[\c
.BR \-cacert \ file\fr]
[\c
.BR \-clientcert \ file\fr]
[\c
.BR \-clientkey \ file\fr]
[\c
.BI \-ac \ assocClass\fr]
[\c
.BI \-arc \ resultClass\fr]
[\c
.BI \-ar \ role\fr]
[\c
.BI -arr \ resultRole\fr]
.I objectPath
[\c
.I prop=value[,...]]
[\c
.I prop[,...]]
.SH Alternate formats:
.LP
.B wbemgc\t
[\c
.BR \-nl ]
[\c
.BR \-h ]
[\c
.BR \-t ]
[\c
.BR \-dx ]
[\c
.BR \-dr ]
.I objectPath
[\c
.I prop[,...]]
.LP
.B wbemgcd\t
[\c
.BR \-nl ]
[\c
.BR \-h ]
[\c
.BR \-t ]
[\c
.BR \-dx ]
[\c
.BR \-dr ]
.I objectPath
.LP
.B wbemdc\t
[\c
.BR \-nl ]
[\c
.BR \-h ]
[\c
.BR \-t ]
[\c
.BR \-dx ]
[\c
.BR \-dr ]
.I objectPath
.LP
.B wbemec\t
[\c
.BR \-nl ]
[\c
.BR \-h ]
[\c
.BR \-t ]
[\c
.BR \-cte]
[\c
.BR \-dx ]
[\c
.BR \-dr ]
.I objectPath
[\c
.I prop[,...]]
.LP
.B wbemecn\t
[\c
.BR \-nl ]
[\c
.BR \-h ]
[\c
.BR \-t ]
[\c
.BR \-dx ]
[\c
.BR \-dr ]
.I objectPath
.LP
.B wbemgi\t
[\c
.BR \-nl ]
[\c
.BR \-h ]
[\c
.BR \-t ]
[\c
.BR \-dx ]
[\c
.BR \-dr ]
.I objectPath
[\c
.I prop[,...]]
.LP
.B wbemci\t
[\c
.BR \-nl ]
[\c
.BR \-h ]
[\c
.BR \-t ]
[\c
.BR \-dx ]
[\c
.BR \-dr ]
.I objectPath
[\c
.I prop=value[,...]]
.LP
.B wbemmi\t
[\c
.BR \-nl ]
[\c
.BR \-h ]
[\c
.BR \-t ]
[\c
.BR \-dx ]
[\c
.BR \-dr ]
.I objectPath
[\c
.I prop=value[,...]]
.LP
.B wbemdi\t
[\c
.BR \-nl ]
[\c
.BR \-h ]
[\c
.BR \-t ]
[\c
.BR \-dx ]
[\c
.BR \-dr ]
.I objectPath
.LP
.B wbemei\t
[\c
.BR \-nl ]
[\c
.BR \-h ]
[\c
.BR \-t ]
[\c
.BR \-cte]
[\c
.BR \-dx ]
[\c
.BR \-dr ]
.I objectPath
[\c
.I prop[,...]]
.LP
.B wbemein\t
[\c
.BR \-nl ]
[\c
.BR \-h ]
[\c
.BR \-t ]
[\c
.BR \-dx ]
[\c
.BR \-dr ]
.I objectPath
.LP
.B wbemai\t
[\c
.BR \-nl ]
[\c
.BR \-h ]
[\c
.BR \-t ]
[\c
.BR \-cte]
[\c
.BR \-dx ]
[\c
.BR \-dr ]
[\c
.BI \-ac \ assocClass\fr]
[\c
.BI \-arc \ resultClass\fr]
[\c
.BI \-ar \ role\fr]
[\c
.BI -arr \ resultRole\fr]
.I objectPath
[\c
.I prop[,...]]
.LP
.B wbemain\t
[\c
.BR \-nl ]
[\c
.BR \-h ]
[\c
.BR \-t ]
[\c
.BR \-dx ]
[\c
.BR \-dr ]
[\c
.BI \-ac \ assocClass\fr]
[\c
.BI \-arc \ resultClass\fr]
[\c
.BI \-ar \ role\fr]
[\c
.BI -arr \ resultRole\fr]
.I objectPath
.LP
.B wbemri\t
[\c
.BR \-nl ]
[\c
.BR \-h ]
[\c
.BR \-t ]
[\c
.BR \-cte]
[\c
.BR \-dx ]
[\c
.BR \-dr ]
[\c
.BI \-arc \ resultClass\fr]
[\c
.BI \-ar \ role\fr]
.I objectPath
[\c
.I prop[,...]]
.LP
.B wbemrin\t
[\c
.BR \-nl ]
[\c
.BR \-h ]
[\c
.BR \-t ]
[\c
.BR \-dx ]
[\c
.BR \-dr ]
[\c
.BI \-arc \ resultClass\fr]
[\c
.BI \-ar \ role\fr]
.I objectPath
.LP
.B wbemgp\t
[\c
.BR \-nl ]
[\c
.BR \-h ]
[\c
.BR \-t ]
[\c
.BR \-dx ]
[\c
.BR \-dr ]
.I objectPath
\c
.I prop
.LP
.B wbemsp\t
[\c
.BR \-nl ]
[\c
.BR \-h ]
[\c
.BR \-t ]
[\c
.BR \-dx ]
[\c
.BR \-dr ]
.I objectPath
\c
.I prop=value
.LP
.B wbemcm\t
[\c
.BR \-nl ]
[\c
.BR \-h ]
[\c
.BR \-t ]
[\c
.BR \-dx ]
[\c
.BR \-dr ]
.I objectPath
.I method[.param=value[,...]]
.LP
.B wbemcmx\t
[\c
.BR \-nl ]
[\c
.BR \-h ]
[\c
.BR \-t ]
[\c
.BR \-dx ]
[\c
.BR \-dr ]
.I objectPath
.I method[.param=value[,...]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I wbemcli
is a command line based CIM Client. It uses one of the
\fIgc|gcd|dc|ec|ecn|gi|ci|mi|di|ei|ein|ai|ain|ri|rin|gp|sp|cm|cmx\fP
operations and the
fully qualified path to the CIM Object to get to the host and
execute the specified operation.
This implementation is CIMOM library independent and can be used
with all WBEM compliant CIMOM implementations.
The \fIobjectPath\fP parameter is used to locate the CIM object and
has the following format:
.LP
.B \t<scheme>://[user:pwd@]<host>:<port>/<namespace[/..]>:<classname>[.<key=value[,..]>]
.TP
The \fIobjectPath\fP should be enclosed in single quotes so that double quoted
strings are perserved by the command line shell. Refer to the examples section.
.TP
The only scheme supported is http. Example:
.B \thttp://krz:xyz@localhost:5988/root/cimv2:rpm_package.name=glibc
.LP
The \fIprop=value[,...]\fP parameter is used to specify <Property>=<Value>
pairs for the ci, mi and sp operations.
Only one <Property>=<Value> pair must be specified for the sp operation.
.TP
Example:
.B stringProp="a string",booleanProp=true,numericProp=25
.TP
Arrays of property values are supported by specifying additional values
separated by commas
.TP
Example:
.B stringProp="a string","another string",numericProp=25,49,12
.LP
The \fIprop[,...]\fP parameter specifies the properties to be returned.
One \fIprop\fP must be specified for the gp operation. For other operations
this parameter is optional, if none are specified all properties will be
returned.
.TP
Example:
.B stringProp,booleanProp,numericProp
.LP
The \fImethod[.param=value[,...]\fP parameter is used to specify
<Parameter>=<Value> pairs for the cm operation.
.TP
Example:
.B Method2Execute.stringParam="a string",booleanParam=true,numericParam=25
.TP
Arrays of property values are supported by specifying additional values
separated by commas
.TP
Example:
.B Method2Execute.stringParam="a string","another string",numericParam=25,49,12
.SH OPERATIONS:
Supported operations are:
.TP
.B gc
\tget class
.TP
.B gcd
\tget class definition
.TP
.B dc
\tdelete class
.TP
.B ec
\tenumerate classes
.TP
.B ecn
\tenumerate class names
.TP
.B gi
\tget instance
.TP
.B ci
\tcreate instance
.TP
.B mi
\tmodify instance
.TP
.B di
\tdelete instance
.TP
.B ei
\tenumerate instances
.TP
.B ein
\tenumerate instance names
.TP
.B ai
\tenumerate association instances
.TP
.B ain
\tenumerate association instance names
.TP
.B ri
\tenumerate reference instances
.TP
.B rin
\tenumerate reference instance names
.TP
.B gp
\tget property
.TP
.B sp
\tset property
.TP
.B cm
\tcall method
.TP
.B cmx
\tcall method (return XML)
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Print a help message
.TP
.B \-nl
Start a new line for every property returned
.TP
.B \-t
Append array ([]), reference (&) and key property (#) indicators to property names
.TP
.B \-cte
Enable support for chunked responses from CIMOM
.TP
.B \-v
Show version information
.TP
.B \-dx
Show XML messages payload as received from CIMOM
.TP
.B \-dr
Delineate references with { } pairs
.TP
.B \-noverify
Do not verify the server certificate for https URLs (useful for testing)
.TP
.B \-cacert
CA certificate file (required for https URLS unless \-noverify 
is specified)
.TP
.B \-clientcert
Client certificate file (if the CIM server requires client certificates)
.TP
.B \-clientkey
Client private key file (required if \-clientcert is specified)
.TP
.B \-ac
\tassociation class name (ai, ain only)
.TP
.B \-arc
\tresult class name (ai, ain, rin, ri only)
.TP
.B \-ar
\trole name (ai, ain, rin, ri only)
.TP
.B \-arr
\tresult role name (ai, ain only)
.SH LIBRARIES
.B wbemcli
requires either libghttp, libwww, or winhttp, depending on build options used.
.SH Example
To get all instances of rpm_packages, i.e. all installed rpm packages on
the local system, the following command can be used:
.IP "" 1
.B wbemcli ei 'http://localhost:5988/root/cimv2:rpm_package'
.PP
The get instance operation can be specified to get more information about
a certain package:
.IP "" 1
.B wbemcli gi 'http://localhost:5988/root/cimv2:rpm_package.name="glibc"'
.pp
The create instance (ci) operation can be called using the following format example.  Property values can also be specified/add to the sytax.
.IP "" 1
.B wbemcli ci 'http://localhost:5988/root/cimv2:TST_InstanceProperties.CreationClassName="TST_InstanceProperties",Id="Instance #2"' 'CreationClassName="TST_InstanceProperties",Id="Instance #2",Property_string2="This is instance#2",Property_uint8=250'
.IP "" 1
.pp
More command line examples can be found from the wbemcli/samples directory.  
.IP "" 1
.SH Host indirection support
The scheme and host specification in the object path can be replaced by an
arbitrary token that
will be used to locate the proper scheme and host specification
in ./wbemcli.ind
or any file specified via the WBEMCLI_IND environment variable.
The format of this file is as follows:
.TP
.B
	<token>: <scheme>://[user:pwd@]<host>:<port>
.TP
Assuming the following entry in ./wbemcli.ind:
.TP
.B
	myCimom: http://localhost:5988
.TP
The example in the previous section can then be specified as:
.IP "" 1
.B
	wbemcli gi 'myCimom/root/cimv2:rpm_package.name="glibc"'
.PP

.SH FILES
.TP
.I ${datarootdir}/sblim-wbemcli/cacert.pem
The default CA certificate file. Can be overriden with \-cacert.
.SH AUTHOR
Adrian Schuur <schuur@de.ibm.com>
.SH BUGS
The SBLIM project maintains a mailing list to which you should direct all
questions regarding sfcb, sfcc, wbemcli, or any of the SBLIM providers.
To subscribe to this mailing list visit
.IP
http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/sblim-issues
.PP
The SBLIM Project Bug tracking page can be found at
.IP
http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=128809&atid=712784
.SH COPYRIGHT
(C) Copyright IBM Corp. 2002, 2004, 2005, 2009
.SH AVAILABILITY
wbemcli is a part of the SBLIM project. The most recent version is
available on the web at
.IP
http://sblim.sourceforge.net/
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cimserver (1)

